---
layout: post
title: .NET-Applications
---

# User

All .NET applications are run by the user `dotnet`.\
`/var/dotnet` is used as the home directory for that user, all .NET applications are installed there.

# Environments

<span dir="">The script </span>`go.sh`<span dir=""> in </span>`/var/dotnet/bin`<span dir=""> (accessible in the path) allows switching to one of the environments, e.g.</span>`go.sh list-prod`<span dir="">. The followings scripts/aliases can then be used and apply to the current environment:</span>

* `dotnet-stop`
* `dotnet-status`
* `dotnet-start`
* `deploy.sh`\
  The version (git commit hash) to be installed is expected as a parameter.\
  This script is doing the actual deploy and is called by the gitlab jobs, see [Deploy](#deploy)

## Folder Structure

* deploy\
  Stores a file `deploy.log` that keeps track of all software version (ie. git hashes) installed
* etc\
  Contains the [Configuration files](./configuration-files)
* log\
  Application log
* modRT\
  Files that are environment specific and needed to be copied over to the runtime folder after deploying.
* RT\
  Contains the application runtime. The zip files are extracted here upon deploy.
* RTold\
  Backup of the last version. During deploy, the current runtime is moved to this folder.

# Deploy

Deploy is initiated via gitlab. (docu to be added)\
After each successful build, a deploy archive is assembled and stored on the dev server in `/var/dotnet/versions/{app}/{branch}`.\
The filename is composed of date and git commit hash. The deploy jobs in gitlab run the script `/var/dotnet/bin/deploy_version.sh` with the parameters

* git commit hash
* environment

This can also be done manually, for instance for the list-demo environment currently not available in gitlab.\
**The folder /var/dotnet/versions has to be cleaned up periodically**, otherwise the disk will run full. Old branches can be removed after merge, old deploys of the master branch can be safely removed, too.

The deploy_version.sh script on Staging Production copies the deploy archive from the Dev server using scp\
(TODO: This is currently done with the user rkh24).





